The strange stone structures similar to the one upon which Holman and Verslun narrowly escaped being offered up as sacrifices to the Centipede are to be found in many islands of the Pacific at the present day.
The Dance of the Centipede, which Holman and Verslun witnessed in the Long Gallery, can be seen to-day by any tourist who leaves the beaten paths.
Every missionary to the islands can tell of "devil dances" that take place in secluded groves, and in which, to his great disgust, his converts often take part.
Although the South Seas constitute the last fortress of romance, and a mention of the coral atolls immediately conjures up a vision of palms and rice-white beaches, the sensitive person senses the dark and bloody past when the wizard men were the rulers, and death stalked in the palm groves.
There are several islands in Polynesia that have been looked upon from time immemorial as islands of the dead.
These places are shunned by the islanders, and the centuries have invested them with the same atmosphere of brooding mystery that Professor Herndon and his party felt when they landed upon the silent isle where the Wizards of the Centipede performed their weird rites without interference from the outside world.
There is a Tongan proverb which tells us that only fools and children lie awake during hours that could be devoted to slumber, and it is a wise proverb when you judge it from a Polynesian standpoint.
No special preparations are required for slumber in the last haunts of Romance, and as one does not lose caste by dozing in public, the South Sea dweller sees no reason for remaining awake when he could be peacefully sleeping.
The thermometer in the shack at the end of the wharf registered 98 degrees, but the picturesque little town, with its white and vermilion-tinted houses, looked restful and cool.
The hot, still atmosphere weighed down upon the Pacific, ironing out the wind ruffles till the ocean resembled a plain of glass, in which the Union Company's steamer Navua, from Auckland, appeared to be stuck fast, as if the glassy sea had suddenly hardened around her black hull.
A thin strip of shadow huddled close to a pile of pearl shell at the end of the wharf, and I doubled myself up and attempted to sleep.
At last, maddened by the biting rays, I collected half a dozen copra bags, splintered a piece of kauri pine, and after rigging up one bag as an awning, I spread the others on the planks and fell asleep.
The incident stirred my curiosity.
I turned the words over in my mind as I watched them saunter slowly toward me.
I was the cause of the interruption.
I lifted myself into a sitting position, and the movement disturbed the heap of shell.
I sat up and looked across the stretch of water at The Waif, and the young fellow waited patiently.
The youngster put his head on one side and looked as if he was turning things over in his mental storehouse, then he gave me a quick, shrewd glance and burst out laughing.
I started to laugh, then I stopped suddenly. 
It was after nine o'clock that evening before I again saw young Holman, and by that time Levuka was far behind.
The girl did not speak for a few minutes, and I made no attempt to break the silence.
I will go with the party if you say so.
He turned away and I walked for'ard.
The beauty of the night was extraordinary.
I lay there panting, watching the yacht to see what Newmarch would do.
The one-eyed man stood for a long time contemplating his handiwork.
The note was exceedingly brief.
Darkness came down like a suffocating blanket, and we halted.
He made no further comment and I breathed a sigh of relief.
Leith halted and beckoned to the two girls and Holman, who were some distance in the rear.
The Professor was gurgling joyfully as we tramped through that miniature cañon.
You couldn't find any scenery like that outside the tropics.
Of course I lied when I said that.
My friend Professor Hanlaw of Oakland would enjoy a glimpse of this spot.
A geologist could spend a lifetime here.
Fifteen paces brought us to a point that left the strange curiosity naked to our eyes.
We climbed hastily down the tree, crept cautiously back to the camp and took the stout rope which we had used in reaching the Ledge of Death.
The camp was quiet.
We crouched down and waited.
The minutes passed slowly, but the black barrier away to the east gave no sign of life.
He broke off abruptly and gripped my arm.
A small piece of shale hit me on the shoulder after a long wait, and I turned my face upward.
They had circled the floor about ten times when Holman tugged my coat and I wriggled back from the crevice.
Holman put his mouth close to my ear.
In silence we went stumbling on into the appalling blackness.
The noise was deafening.
We stopped and moved together instinctively.
As my guide's fingers slipped from my shoulder, I stood still and listened.
A revolver cracked within two feet of me, and the bullet ripped through the tall headdress.
I crouched quickly and ran along the corridor.
Their motionless forms fascinated him.
The moon had disappeared behind the hills, but the limed track was quite distinct.
The boy turned to me, his face all blood-smeared and haggard, and for a moment we stared at the strip of bark.
It was within a few minutes of sunset when our despondency was suddenly swept away.
We suffered unbearable torture.
We had travelled about three quarters of a mile when the native dropped upon his knees and I immediately followed his example.
Hour after hour we were jerked over the ground.
But thoughts of such an ending were soon put aside.
We crouched in the bushes and listened.
Two of the savages slipped from the stone while the other dropped upon his stomach and hid his face.